# Final Project for INFO 2950: The Social Implications of Food

This project for INFO 2950 provides an analysis of Yelp, a crowd-sourced business review platform. The dataset I'm using is a subset of information stored on Yelp, including businesses, users, and reviews in Canada and the United States. I focused on deriving insights from the restaurants that users patronize and their friends. Specifically, my research question was: how do social relationships influnce user behavior on the review platform? Two aspects of this question -- user growth and social preferences -- were investigated through two hypotheses. User growth is measured by the number of users who are registered to the platform over time. User preferences are defined by how much does a user like a particular category or cuisine; to measure preference, I calculated the total number of stars given to a particular category by the user divided by total number of stars given in reviews to all categories. 

My first finding on user growth stems from a linear regression analysis of when users join the platform. From the regression model and statistical test, there is a statistically significant positive relationship between time and the number of Yelp users joining the platform. From my regression fit, an estimated 2 out of the 6000 total users, joined each day from over the past 14 years. However, there seems to be a non-linear growth rate which is not best modelled by the linear regression model. In particular, user growth was slower at the launch of the platform and has begun slowing since approximately 2016. The slowed user growth bodes poorly for Yelp as a decline in growth almost certainly indicates slowed growth for the company at large, though this could be counteracted by a consistently maintained active user base. 

My second finding looks more into the social aspect of Yelp to see whether it is feasible to predict a user's prefernce based on their friends' preferences. I created a Ordinary Least Squares regression model to predict how likely soemone is to like "American (New)" cuisine -- which is one of the top categories on Yelp -- based on how much their friends preference each of the top twenty categories, and then compared the result to their actual preference metric. There appeared to be some predictive value in doing this, but the results demonstrated only some of the categories were useful in this analysis, while incorporating all twenty categories likely led to overfitting. Therefore, the results showed some promise for a future recommendation system, but futher fine-tuning and a larger dataset are be needed to find the nuanced relationships between categories.  
